---
layout: post
title: What's wrong with American cars? | tundal45@github:~
short_title: What's wrong with American cars?
date: 2008-12-16 6:45:19
---

If you talk to [Daniel
Snow](http://drfd.hbs.edu/fit/public/facultyInfo.do?facInfo=ovr&amp;facEmId=dsnow@hbs.edu),
you will find that there is nothing wrong with them. Snow is an
Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business
School and has experience working for one of the Big 3 Companies (as
stated in his article). He believes that American cars "_are among the
best in the world_" and plans to buy a [Chevy Cobalt
SS](http://www.chevrolet.com/cobalt/?seo=goo_|_2008_Chevy_Retention_|_IMG_Chevy_Cobalt_|_Chevy_Cobalt_SS_|_chevy_cobalt_ss)
when he is in the market for his next car.

I came across [his
article](http://www.forbes.com/2008/12/03/american-automakers-bailout-oped-cx_ds_1203snow.html)
through [this post](http://blogs.bnet.com/harvard/?p=504). I was looking
for some reading material while I ate my breakfast, and considering the
amount of talk that is going on this topic, I decided to look into it.
Besides, I have been paying attention to these events over the past few
weeks. Most of the stuff I read is rarely sympathetic to the Big 3. I
personally love Japanese cars, I always have. The reliability and fuel
economy is amazing. They are just made to last. Since I was already
biased, I thought an article "in defense of American Cars" would help me
get a balanced perspective. So I decided to read on.

However, I soon realized that the arguments put forth were rather weak.
In his article, Snow talks about how "_GM, for instance, offers 20
models that get 30 miles per gallon--a statistic that puts them in good
company with the likes of Toyota and Honda._" At first, that looks
great. And don't get me wrong, GM is definitely headed in the right
direction with a statistic like that. However, without telling us how
many total models GM manufactures out of which 20 are hybrid, the number
in itself does not hold much value. I think it would be better if snow
were to give us a percentage so we can better understand the impact of
GM's efforts.

Snow further adds that GM offers "_nine hybrid models, more than any
other company._" The problem here is the same. Without putting the
number 9 in context of the total number of models, this statistic does
not add value to the argument.

To illustrate how the Big 3 is learning from its past mistakes, Snow
informs us that "_a person who replaces her big Chevrolet Tahoe SUV with
a Tahoe Hybrid saves more gasoline than one who trades in a Toyota
Corolla for a Prius._" That's great for those people but the bump in
fuel economy is something that will obviously favor a brand that was not
known for its fuel economy. Corollas have always been fuel efficient
cars. They are definitely more fuel efficient now than they used to be
but they were never horrible in terms of fuel economy. Tahoes on the
other hand were huge gas guzzlers that was initially designed and
manufactured with power in mind. So it is obvious that by introducing
hybrid models, the fuel economy will increase dramatically. Again, I
would like to re-iterate that Chevy deserves the props to be headed in
the right direction. But the fact that the presentation of these
arguments attempts to hint that the cars manufactured by American
manufacturers are better than the foreign vehicles is where the problem
lies.

In my personal opinion, not all American cars are bad. There are brands
that are manufactured by the Big 3 that are profitable and, dare I say,
somewhat reliable. The problem is that they have too many brands
floating around. GM is the one with the most brands. Do we really need
all these brands? Wouldn't it be much better to focus on the brands that
are profitable and then get rid of brands that are not doing so well.
Once these manufacturers go lean, they can really work on competing with
the foreign counterparts at every level from safety, fuel economy to
great designs and reliability. They also need to figure out how to cut
production costs and figure out a better deal with the members of UAW.

If the Big 3 decide to continue with their modus operandi, it is clear
that they cannot survive the competition. I hope that the people with
the power to make decisions realize what is needed of them. If that
happens, I would not be surprised that more and more people will buy
American cars not because they are patriotic but because they are in the
market for reliable and well-designed vehicles.
