---
layout: post
title: Nutmeggers | tundal45@github:~
short_title: Nutmeggers
date: 2008-12-25 7:35:54
---

A _nutmegger_ is a nickname given to the residents of the State of
Connecticut. According to [this Wikipedia
article](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nutmegger), Connecticut  was known
as _the nutmeg state_ before it was dubbed as _the Constitution State_
in 1958. I came across this name while playing _Trivial Pursuit_ with my
friends. I actually love the name because it is so much easier to say
*frickin nutmeggers* as opposed to *frickin Connecticut drivers*. I know
it might sound harsh but those of you who have lived in Connecticut for
any part of your life would know what I am referring to.

You actually do not need to live in Connecticut at all. If you have ever
driven through the Merritt Parkway, you will see all the symptoms of a
Nutmegger. One of the distinguishing quality of a nutmegger is randomly
hitting on the brakes for very little or no reason. While nutmeggers are
not afraid to put the pedal to the metal, a drop of rain on the
windshield could bring down their speed considerably while people from
other states would just turn on their wipers and slow down just a tad.
The other thing that distinguishes nutmeggers is the sense of
entitlement of the left lane irrespective of their speed on the highway.
In fact, some nutmeggers love to drive at the same speed as the person
on the right lane but feel that it is much better idea to block all the
people behind them rather than them moving over to the right lane.

Among nutmeggers, there is a completely new breed that is the _Fairfield
County nutmegger_. These are a sub class of a nutmegger who illustrate
all the above qualities with greater consistency along with some more
specif characters. Fairfield County nutmeggers are known for their
complete lack of concern about others on the road illustrated by the
fact that they have no problems turning on their brights and keeping
them on even when there is oncoming traffic. The best symptom on a
Fairfield County nutmegger that does not relate to driving though, is
the fact that an inch of snow predicted gets the entire town into the
local grocery store preparing for, what in their heads is, a disaster of
huge proportions.

So there it is. I have been meaning to vent about this for a while but
if it wasn't for the discover of the word _nutmegger_, I would not have
been able to come up with this post.
