---
layout: post
title: Amurika - F*** Yeah! | tundal45@github:~
short_title: Amurika - F*** Yeah!
date: 2009-11-13 7:59:48
---

I am sure that those who have watched the awesomeness that is _[Team
America - World Police](http://www.teamamerica.com/)_ will have [the
song](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sWS-FoXbjVI) playing in their
heads. Before you jump to the conclusion that I have turned into a
patriotic American, I want to tell you that this post is about a
different aspect of the United States that I have come to love: the
higher education system.

Prior to this, I posted about [my life as an international
student]({{site.baseurl}}/life-as-an-international-student.html) in the
United States where one of my friend brought up a really interesting
point in the comments section. She pointed out that unlike my problem of
having no options but to fight it out, her friends were overwhelmed with
options. She was obviously talking about the plethora of options in
terms of classes to choose and activities to participate in. In my
excitement to shed a light on my struggles as an international student,
I completely lost sight of highlighting the positives that are related
to academics.You might recall I mentioned how I got to love liberal arts
and how I was unaware of what it meant before coming to the United
States. However, my friend's comment made me think about why I wanted to
come to the United States in the first place.

I was in 8th grade when my cousin started applying to schools in the
United States. Up until that point, the idea of going to a completely
different country was not something I entertained. It was not until my
cousin started looking into schools in the United States that I even
realized that as an option. I remember reading through the brochures
that he used to get and being surprised at how much flexibility a
student has to carve out the academic experience that they want.
_"Personalized education, what a novel idea!"_, I thought. However, that
was all it was at that point, a cool and progressive approach to
education.

It was not until 11th grade that I started considering coming to the
United States for my undergraduate. In Nepal, after 10th grade, you go
to "college" for your 11th and 12th grade. However, there is a
significant gap in the level of difficulty between 10th and 11th grade.
Furthermore, the class size is generally bigger and the curriculum is
very outdated and in dire need of a reform. Since I went to one of the
better institutions, I was surrounded by really smart individuals, most
of them proficient in the art of grasping abstract concepts as well as
memorizing them. I was not so special in that I thrived on learning
through class discussions and relied heavily on the teacher. Rote
learning was not my cup of tea and it was tougher for me to grasp a
concept unless I had someone explain it to me. To make matters worse,
there were very few teachers whose approach matched with my style of
learning. Soon it became clear that I will not be able to develop in
such a environment.

Another major factor for me to want to come to the United States was the
opportunity to be independent. With my parents there to take care of me,
I was starting to take things for granted. This was another reason why
my academics suffered in 11th and 12th grade. I just stopped caring and
not appreciating the opportunity that I had. The only way I saw how to
fix that was by coming to the United States where I had to figure out
things on my own. I knew it was going to be a challenge but I also knew
that I will come out of the experience as a better individual. However,
little did I know how much more I was going to learn from the
experience.

It was not until I got to the United States did I realize the true power
of personalizing my educational experience. With majors and electives of
my choosing and projects that allowed me to delve in the areas that I
was interested in, the opportunities were truly limitless. Another
important part of the experience was the value of being an active member
of the campus community. It is pretty common, especially among
international students, to be content with getting good grades and focus
only on activities that somehow relate to them landing a dream job upon
graduation. I say this because I used to think along the same lines. It
was during my junior year when I helped organize a jazz concert with a
professor to raise money for Tsunami victims did I realize that a tiny
effort on my part could serve a better purpose than just being  a resume
builder. As an international house coordinator my senior year, I got a
chance to help incoming international students find their place in the
community as well as help the American students develop better
understanding of all the cultures represented through cultural events.
Being involved on campus was a great way to develop skills I would have
not been able to acquire from the classroom setting.

Looking back, I realize that I was lucky to have been able to get
everything and more out of my collegiate experience in the United
States. It was definitely tough and there were times I wish I had it a
little easier but in the end, it was worth all the blood, sweat and
tears. More importantly, I realize that since I came for the right
reasons, they always helped me make rational decision and remain focused
on learning, whether it be in the classroom or outside.
