---
layout: post
title: Kathmandu as a startup hub for Nepal - The possibilities and the obstacles | tundal45@github:~
short_title: Kathmandu as a startup hub for Nepal - The possibilities and the obstacles
date: 2009-05-04 11:05:45
---

Recently, I came across Socialect, a tech startup that has taken
bootstrapping to the next level by moving its operations to Kathmandu,
Nepal. You can think of Socialect as CitySearch where users enjoy the
power to update the contents. And for that extra bit of coolness,
everything is geotagged. Oh, and once you find what you want, you can
then send the info to your mobile phone. It's this kind of well thought
out design and features that has already got some people talking.

Actually, I need to step back. I would not have been introduced to
Socialect if it was not for [Freddie
Benjamin](http://twitter.com/freddie_b) who came across the site and
loved it so much that he could not stop tweeting about it. When I
checked out the site, I too was impressed with the features. Sure the
site lacks in data but that is the case with any startup, especially one
like socialect that depends on the userbase to generate content.

However, that was not what kept my attention on the site. What I found
interesting was the post by [Akshay
Sthapit](http://twitter.com/socialectnepal), the CTO for Socialect. In
his post, he explains the reasons why he chose Kathmandu as the
operating hub. He further elaborates why he thinks Kathmandu has what it
takes to be a great place for tech startups. His reasoning is that if
you are anywhere in the United States, the living expenses are going to
be much higher than that in Nepal. So Kathmandu, as a major city in
Nepal with all the resources that one may need, can be a great place to
make the limited capital a founder of a startup has and make it stretch
much further.

Of course, this option is much more suitable for someone who is familiar
with that part of the world so this solution may not work for everyone.
However, his post was geared for other Nepalese programmers and
entrepreneurs like himself who would like to enjoy the lifestyle one
enjoys in Nepal while still having access to opportunities that the
world has to offer.

This was very interesting for me as I often think about how I can pave a
path back to Nepal in the future. However, unlike Sthapit, I get easily
discouraged by the adversities that one has to reconcile in Nepal in
addition to the ones startups everywhere face. I discuss these
adversities below.


* *12 Hour Power Cuts*: While Nepal is second only to Brazil in its
  potential for generating Hydro Electric Power, lack of proper
infrastructure, leadership, and plethora of other factors mean that
there is only enough electricity to power the capital for half a day
everyday.

* *Political Instability*: All you have to do is search
  [#nepalcrisis](http://search.twitter.com/search?q=%23nepalcrisis) on
Twitter and you will see the live outcry from Nepalese all over the
world describing their frustration over how the country can never dig
itself out of the political stalemate. Political turmoil has been an
issue for Nepal since [People's movement for Democracy back in
1990](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jana_Andolan) and the situation
continues to worsen as the country struggles to find proper leadership
focuses on helping the nation and its citizens rather than constantly
fight among each other for power (not to mention their cut of corruption
money).

* *Lack of Talent Pool*: With majority of the nation's youth already in
  or looking to move to the United States, Australia, the United Kingdom
and other western nations for better opportunities, finding (and
retaining) talented individuals has been a problem for companies in
Nepal. I interned at [Mercantile Communications](http://www.mos.com.np/)
in 2004 and the Manager of the e-Commerce department told me then that
the company stopped hiring engineers and started hiring people who
completed some programming course for most of their basic programming
needs as most of the engineers they hired would leave the company within
6 months for academic or professional opportunities outside Nepal.
Founders of other established businesses that I have had the opportunity
to interact with have also shared similar frustrations.

* *Extortion Racket*: It is not unusual for people representing
  different groups, especially groups related to the Maoists but not
limited to them, to come to your home or the place of your business and
demand that you "donate" to their organization. There is absolutely
nothing that one can do in such a situation but to meet their demands
unless the person is willing to face the consequences. There are also
some cases where these groups will force you to hire/retain an employee
whose only qualification is his connections with the group.

* *Inefficient/Slow Government Agencies*: People who think that the
  government agencies in the United States respond slowly are in for a
treat if they ever have to deal with government officials from Nepal.
While the office hours are from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM, work does not begin
until 11:00 AM (sometimes even later) and very rarely continues after
3:00 PM. It is not unusual that you have to provide "additional
incentive" to the government official looking at your file/request.
Furthermore, it is not at all surprising that you are sent on a wild
goose chase to get one simple signature. One has to be really patient,
thick skinned and prepared to succumb to any demand to be able to get
any stuff done with the government agencies.

Sthapit is aware of these issues and talks about them in his post.
However, the only issue that he addresses is that of the power cuts (He
notes that the cost of a backup generator or battery to power your
developer machine is still much lower than the living costs in the US).
As per the server that hosts your awesome application, he mentions
plethora of cloud computing services to hint that startups have the
option to use these cloud using services from one of the many companies
that are based around the world where persistent power supply is not a
luxury.

Freddie, in his post, does a good job in shedding some light on the
talent pool aspect. He suggests that there is talent in Nepal but what
is lacking are incentives for most people to truly express themselves
and bring out their full potential. He thinks, and I agree, that given
proper incentives and stake in the success of the company, there still
is a good talent pool available in Nepal. The only hurdle is to make
sure that they are given enough incentive so that they do not need to
look for "better" options outside of Nepal.

The big issue here, that niether Sthapit nor Freddie address, is that
the political turmoil, uncertainty and complete lack of security
(financial as well as personal) within the country are a huge factor
that make people want to leave. As Sthapit points out, getting oneself
out of the herd mentality is crucial. This is not just true for the
founders to see the hidden potential but also for the employees to
understand what their future could hold for them if they ride out the
storm.

So what do I think? I think that the point Sthapit makes about low
living cost is an excellent one and something that I had not thought of
until I read his post. It is clear that Kathmandu is a great place if
you are thinking purely in terms of cutting costs. Don't get me wrong.
Neither me nor Sthapit are under the illusion that Kathmandu is
replacing Silicon Valley. However, Sthapit points out that the city has
all the makings of a good hub for
[LILOs](http://www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1890387-1,00.html).
Power cuts are also not that big of a deal with proper backup power
sources. In fact, Sthapit raises an interesting point about how power
cuts makes him more aware of his consumption habits. Freddie's two cents
on giving employees proper incentives and the opportunity to express
themselves by giving them an environment where they can get their
creative juices flowing is a great solution to tap into the talent pool
currently stuck in dead end jobs. Based on my conversation with Sthapit,
I think there is very little need to work with the government agencies.
Therefore, their slowness becomes irrelevant for the most part.

However, we are still left with two big problems: Political Instability
and Extortion Racket. The very idea that anyone can come to me and make
ridiculous demand and I have to comply, irrespective of how ridiculous
the demands may be, is something that I personally cannot look past.
There is no guarantee that the result of your hard work has to be shared
with people who had nothing to do with your success. Add to that the
uncertainty that violence can erupt any second and the nation could go
back to civil war because some politician was not too happy about his
needs not being met.

I certainly admire the optimism that Sthapit, Freddie and others who
responded to the original post on Socialect demonstrate and I really
hope that the situation gets better in Nepal, not just within the
context of tech startups but as a whole for the country and its
citizens. However, with the current state of the nation, it will take
someone who is as daring as Sthapit to ignore all the obstacles that lay
around him. I wish him and all the entrepreneurs who share his vision
and optimism all the best. May their vision and leadership build the
much needed foundation that will help Nepal survive the current storm.

**UPDATE 1**: I want to be clear in regards to my statement about this
being more relevant to Nepalese entrepreneurs/programmers. I am not
saying this option is limited to Nepalese. Sthapit, in a discussion
after the first draft of this post, was quick to [point
out](http://socialect.com/posts/487#replies) that there is a Canadian
startup that is based in Kathmandu that is doing very well despite the
poor global economic outlook because they were able to cut costs by
moving operations to Nepal. My point with that was that it is much
easier for someone who already is familiar of how everything works in
Nepal as opposed to someone from a developed part of the world whose
expectations might be a lot different than those of us. However, Sthapit
was also able to inform me that it is not as difficult for someone
unfamiliar to the region and cites the story of the CEO of the Canadian
startup who came to Nepal only 9 months ago and have managed to do just
fine with only few minor difficulties.

**UPDATE 2**: As I was migrating this post to my current Jekyll powered
& GitHub hosted blog, I noticed that a lot of links were not active. The
reason is that Socialect seems to no longer be running but don't feel
bad for Akshay because he has been crushing it as an entrepreneur with
multiple ventures most notably of them being
[Harilo](http://harilo.com), a site that gives access to products from
the US to folks in Nepal.
