---
layout: post
title: Ruby DCamp - One weekend of Pure Awesome | tundal45@github:~
short_title: Ruby DCamp - One weekend of Pure Awesome
date: 2010-12-15 7:13:18
---

I had the opportunity to attend [Ruby DCamp](http://rubydcamp.org/) this
past summer and I am not exaggerating when I say that the experience I
had has made a huge impact on me and how I view myself as a programmer.
I had just returned from [my first Ruby
conference](http://www.lonestarrubyconf.com) when I found out about a 3
day camp in Virginia with Code Retreat on the first day followed by
unconference the other two days. Prior to this, I had only heard about
code retreats and I had no idea what an unconference was but since the
event was free and driving from Connecticut to Virginia was not
something that I considered as an inconvenience, I signed up. Little did
I know that I was going to come back inspired (if you doubt this, you
can talk to anyone from [the New York Ruby
Meetup](http://www.meetup.com/nycruby/) group and they will tell you
that Ruby DCamp inspired everyone)

The code retreat portion was super fun as we worked on Conway's Game of
Life multiple times, each time with a new partner. It was great to pair
program with different people because everyone brought their unique
style to the table. It was great to approach the same problem from
different angles between focusing on the board once to focusing purely
on the rule engine the next. It was so amazing that another member of
New York Ruby Meetup and I decided to start [a
meetup](http://www.meetup.com/unearthruby/) dedicated to beginning
rubyists to learn by pair programming and using TDD. While we have been
struggling to get space for regular gathering, we've had one meetup and
have a good level of interest.

Having never been to an unconference, I had no idea what to expect the
coming days were going to bring. Summary was that I had my mind blown. I
actually "led" a talk on code reading (knowing nothing about it myself
but wanting to find more about techniques from other knowledgeable
people in the crowd). It was great because the talk evolved to a higher
level discussion about coding practices. My mind was blown and not just
by what was discussed but by the power and flexibility that unconference
gave to everyone to guide the discussion and organically turn into
something more awesome.

There were so many great talks but
[Trevor](http://twitter.com/#!/trevmex) is
[much](http://trevmex.com/post/1143766162/ruby-dcamp-2010-session-1-javascript-testing)
[better](http://trevmex.com/post/1143828919/ruby-dcamp-2010-session-2-arel)
[at](http://trevmex.com/post/1144982121/ruby-dcamp-2010-session-3-how-to-read-and-understand)
[taking](http://trevmex.com/post/1149885230/how-to-get-started-in-open-source-software)
[notes](http://trevmex.com/post/1150527503/ruby-dcamp-2010-lightening-talks)
[than](http://trevmex.com/post/1153571277/ruby-dcamp-2010-dispersed-teams)
[I](http://trevmex.com/post/1153644521/links-from-the-lightening-talks-at-rubydcamp-2010)
am. *HI TREVOR!* He gave a talk on how to take awesome notes but sadly
there was no one to take notes for him (at least no one that I know of).
Huge kudos goes to [Evan Light](http://twitter.com/#!/elight) who
organizes Ruby DCamp every year and inspires so many rubyists on a daily
basis. I can also say that he has this amazing superpower of remembering
people's name very quickly. There were about 50-70 of us at the camp and
he had no problem remembering people's name. THAT IS IMPRESSIVE! He also
is a go to guy for some good scotch recommendations!

Outside of code retreat and unconference, it was awesome to hang out
with rubyists and learn from everyone. If you are a n00b, then you
should DEFINITELY go if you can because the sheer amount of knowledge
and ideas shared during those three days is unbelievable. Follow
[ruby_dcamp](http://twitter.com/#!/ruby_dcamp) if you want to stay in
the loop for when registrations open up next summer.

And there you have it, my post on Ruby DCamp three months after
attending. At this rate, you can expect a post on my experience with
[Ruby Mendicant University (RMU)](http://university.rubymendicant.com/)
in early January :).
