---
layout: post
title: Remote Pair Programming - A great way to learn | tundal45@github:~
short_title: Remote Pair Programming - A great way to learn
date: 2011-01-29 9:29:11
---

As programmers, [pair
programming](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pair_programming) is a
technique that most us have heard about and some of us practice daily in
our respective jobs. [Test-Driven
Development](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development) is
another such technique that most of us are familiar with and some of us
practice it on a regular basis. I had heard and read opinions from
different programmers on these techniques and was familiar with the
concept but I did not really get to experience it until I went to [Ruby
DCamp]({{site.baseurl}}/ruby-dcamp-one-weekend-of-pure-awesome.html). It
was there that I realized that pair programming coupled with TDD gave
you:

* A good foundation for producing better software&trade; because the
  tests enabled you to code fearlessly knowing that any bugs would be
caught as they were introduced

* A partner who you can bounce ideas off of, who can catch your mistakes
  minimizing the time spent catching syntax errors as well as nasty bugs
introduced by mistyping.

There are clearly more advantages than the two that I list above but
these were important to me because it helped me with the two most time
consuming parts of programming: finding/fixing bugs and getting unstuck
and remain productive. While [Anita Kuno](http://anteaya.github.com/)
had successfully run remote pair programming group with the
[RMU](http://university.rubymendicant.com/) community, it was not until
Ruby DCamp that I was convinced that it was something that could help me
bootstrap my ruby learning. 

Since I did not get to pair program with [Evan
Light](http://twitter.com/#!/elight) at Ruby DCamp, he offered to do a
remote pair programming session with me. I bought a [Plantronics .Audio
995](http://www.amazon.com/Plantronics-Audio-995-Wireless-Headset/dp/B001SEQN3U)
which both [Avdi Grimm](http://twitter.com/#!/avdi) and Evan said was
one of the best headsets for the value. Anita was nice enough to put up
with my less than ideal setup initially using just the mic in the webcam
on my Dell 1525 since my headset was on it's way. While this was an okay
setup to get a background on remote pairing, I was happy (and I am sure
Anita was too) to have a proper headset for our remote code reading
session on [bundler](https://github.com/carlhuda/bundler).

However, I only paired with Evan on [Game of
Life](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life) once until
very recently when I tried to help him out on some features for
[Coulda](https://github.com/elight/coulda). It was right around then
[Pat Maddox](http://twitter.com/#!/patmaddox) asked people to [pair with
him](http://patmaddox.com/blog/pair-with-me) and I immediately signed
up. Then it occurred to me that I could try asking others if they wanted
to do remote pair programming with me for an hour. After all, the worst
that could happen was [they could say
no]({{site.baseurl}}/ask-and-you-shall-receive.html). On the other hand,
the potential value in new tricks and techniques learned along with
friendships made were too much to ignore.

Therefore I have started contacting some of the rubyists that I follow
on twitter and so far I have received positive feedback. While [David
Brady](http://twitter.com/#!/dbrady) and I [have not managed to produce
much in terms of
code](http://twitter.com/#!/dbrady/status/30489951514664960), we have
taken on the challenge of exploring the possibilities of remote pair
programming as a way to learn and network with fellow rubyists. I will
document current and future findings here to stay tuned.
