---
layout: post
title: One Place
---

I was born and raised in
[Kathmandu](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathmandu), the capital of a
gorgeous country [Nepal](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nepal). I came to
the United States in 2002 seeking a better higher education than what
Nepal had to offer. To be fair, "better" is a relative term. I have
always learned better through discussions and actually seeing
applications of the material being taught and that was one of the
reasons I decided to attend a school in the United States.

The only travel that I have done since moving to the US has been my trip
to Tokyo for a research project back in 2004. To be honest, when I first
came to the US, I did not have aspirations of traveling at all. When I
got to meet students from different parts of the world and share
stories, that was when I felt that I have not seen enough of the world.
One of the lessons from my experience being in the states is that
interacting with people who come from different background really opens
your eyes to new things and see the world in a different way. [Derek
Sivers](http://twitter.com/#!/sivers) talks about this in his latest
[post](http://sivers.org/singapore) and how that's a motivating factor
for him.

“How would you feel about living in the rest of the world for the rest
of your life?” Just thinking about it makes me excited. I'm similar to
Derek in that I need to be "immersed in local friends, language,
culture, and daily life - until I really understand that point of view -
until it feels like home." The part that scares me a little bit is to
then "move to another opposite part of the world and do it again, until
there are no more opposites left." I guess I feel that way because I
just had to say goodbye to a bunch of friends who had been an important
part of the last four years of my life and move to a new city and try
and find my place.

With that said, the idea of having lived at a wide range of places &
called it home sounds just like the kind of goal to aspire to. I'm not
there yet in terms of where I am with my career & I don't have the right
kind of citizenship to make that process any easier (I guess these are
just excuses) but it is definitely something that I want to work
towards. I don't know about you guys but being a true Global Citizen is
kickass!
